Automated 2 hour test via codility
Google solution is allowed
No video

Pearson
-------------
1.5 hours with a 3 member panel


DSA
   What is the best sorting algorithm on the basis of time complexity 
    Quicksort ( O(nlogn)
   Is this the best that can be done?
    Kinda..
   What if we have some more knowledge about the input set
   What if there was no constraint over space?
      We can organize input on the basis of its value and do it in O(n) time
   Is Merge Sort in place?
      Yes
   How much space will be needed for merge sort
      Are we taking recursion stack into account?
       
  What are hashes?
   How do they work?
   What are the characteristics of a good hashing function?
   How will you resolve collisions
   

SQL
   Tell me the basic structure of a SQL query?
      Select * from <table> where <condition>
    How will you get the number of users belonging to a specific zip code ?
      Select count(*) from Users group by zip
     How will you limit the above query to show only counts from zip codes where number of users is greater than 1000
       Select count(*) as  ( I gave wrong answer) Right answer is using  - GROUP BY, HAVING


Ruby on Rails (System Design)
   Is your web-application cloud based?
   How do you create a table in rails?
   How do you delete a table?
   How will you build an api endpoint in Rails?
   Can you make an api endpoint without a controller?
   If you have an application and you want to test how it scales, how will you do it
     Send lots of requests using something like postman or from front-end
   Have you done it?
      Only for testing, not for scale.
  Have you looked at resource utilization while creating artificial traffic?
     No
   Suppose CPU utilization, memory usage is all good but still the performance is suffering, where would you look next?
   Requests to DB
   What if they seem alright too?
   Where will you look in your rails server to improve performance? 
   Do you know anything about rails workers?

   What is class?
   What are the benefits of OOP
   Does ruby have private methods?
   Does ruby have inheritance?
   Some discussion reg class methods and instance methods
 

JavaScript / FrontEnd

   What is an IFFE ?
   Where do you store functions that are being used in many places? Utility folder
   Is it just a collection of methods? Yes
   What do you know about node.js ?
   Is JS singlethreaded or multi threaded
      single-threaded
   How will you bring some amount of multithreading in JS
       Event-queues
    If you have to store the chronological order of an offline test, what are the pitfalls?
      The user can mess with their system clock and throw off our time tracking
   What will you use to track time?
       setTiemOut
   Does it bypass, system time?
     Not sure.
   How did you store images in S3 buckets ( made calls from front end or backend )?
   Was there a security key?


Happy Money

Tic Tac Toe: check if X win, 0 win or in progress or tie

Design stream of event social networking system. Eg FB Live feed

Kafka
Topics reached limit the how then?
Likes how do we store in db?
How speed up getting likes?
Wat api to get streaming data?

https://www.moesif.com/blog/technical/api-design/REST-API-Design-Filtering-Sorting-and-Pagination/
PaginationPermalink
Limit/Offset Paging would look like GET /items?limit=20&offset=100. This query would return the 20 rows starting with the 100th row.
Behavioral: what product you learned and production ready

  
     
Evidation Health - Online tech screen - 2 hours - 6 questions

 to get the month with maximum records from Seattle
select count(*) as cnt, Month(date) as mon from users
where city = 'Seattle'
group by Month(date)
order by cnt desc
limit 1
No execution capability, just write the answer

Q1. SQL

Table schema
User_id, date, city
 (1, '2015-03-01', 'Seattle'),
  (1, '2015-04-06', 'Portland'),
  (22, '2015-02-23', ‘New York')

Write a query to get count of records from Seattle for every month
          select count(*) from users
          where city = 'Seattle'
          group by Month(date)

Write a query
   c. Which SQL framework you used to do it?
     MySQL

Verified in this sandbox : http://sqlfiddle.com/#!9/a4ab3e/4

2. There’s an operation to read a byte. Arrange the options in the ascending order of time if it is being read  from L2 Cache, SSD, HDD, RAM, Redis.


‘Redis is on a distributed machine in the same building’


3.  Programming question to read 2 csv files and do a join and output it in a specific way.
 A subdir in this dir


4. Design the class structure and function signatures ( but no implementation) of tic-tac-toe

5. There is an api end point which is called every time a user views a given page

/pageview?n=N


The value of total_pageviews is incremented by N
And the new value is being written to the disk

The server is not able to keep up with the requests? What are the issues?
How would you solve it?


6. If you are looking at the linux server of your data pipeline. One job that took half an hour to finish is taking 8 hours now. What are some possible hypothesis and how will you verify each of those.
Queue is backed up ( depends on who is maintaining queue - redis, kafka)
A high priority job is stuck in a retry loop - check logs (splunk, rollbar, datadog) to see if the same is getting retried over and over.
